Adding new Production Environment section (#27466)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/setup/production-environment/index.md

---
title: "Production environment"
description: Create a production-quality Kubernetes cluster
weight: 30
no_list: true
---
<!-- overview -->

A production-quality Kubernetes cluster requires planning and preparation.

> If co-workers and customers depend on Kubernetes being available to run critical
> workloads, it is your job to make sure that the platform is set up and
> maintained to meet their demands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If Kubernetes runs critical workloads, Kubernetes must be configured to be resilient.
```
I tried to provide a clear, concise alternative.

Author: Okay. I used what you said and reworded slightly. Thanks.

<!-- body -->

## Production issues

> A personal Kubernetes learning or development environment is not meant to be
> used in production. A production environment may require secure access by many
> users, consistent availability, and the resources to adapt to changing demands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Typically, a production environment Kubernetes has more requirements than a development and test environment Kubernetes. A production environment may require secure access by many users, consistent availability, and the resources to adapt to changing demands.
```
I think it's obvious that a personal or learning Kubernetes is not meant for production. Typically I find end-users have a development and/or test environment Kubernetes in addition to their production environment.

Author: Okay. I used your wording.

As you decide where you want your production Kubernetes environment to live
(on premises or in a cloud) and the amount of management you want to take
on or hand to others, consider how your requirements for a Kubernetes cluster

> are colored by the following issues:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are influenced by the following issues:
```
Nit on word choice. Maybe `influenced` or `impacted` over `colored`

Author: I see that my language was too colorful. :-) Okay. Influenced it is.

- *Availability*: A single-machine Kubernetes [learning environment](/docs/setup/#learning-environment)
has a single point of failure. Creating a highly available cluster means considering:
  - Separating the control plane from the worker nodes.

>   - Duplicating the control plane by having multiple instances of each control plane service available, having those services run on multiple machines, or load balancing traffic to the cluster’s {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="kube-apiserver" text="API server" >}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Replicate the control plane components on multiple nodes.
  - Load balance traffic to the cluster’s {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="kube-apiserver" text="API server" >}}.
```
A load balancer for the `kube-apiserver` is required for HA Kubernetes, [reference link](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/production-environment/tools/kubeadm/high-availability/#first-steps-for-both-methods)

Author: Done. I changed to "Replicating" and "Load balancing" to match the other bullets. Otherwise, I used your wording.

>   - Having enough worker nodes available, or the availability to quickly come on line, as changing workloads warrant it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Creating a [high availability etcd cluster](/docs/setup/production-environment/tools/kubeadm/setup-ha-etcd-with-kubeadm/) with at least three members. etcd clusters should have an [odd number of members.](https://etcd.io/docs/next/faq/#why-an-odd-number-of-cluster-members)
  - Having enough worker nodes available, or the availability to quickly come on line, as changing workloads warrant it.
```
Control plane nodes and etcd can be separated or co-located, [reference link](https://deploy-preview-27466--kubernetes-io-master-staging.netlify.app/docs/setup/production-environment/tools/kubeadm/high-availability/). An HA cluster should have an odd number of etcd members whether it's stacked with the control plane components or external.

Author: Good information. I go into detail about etcd later, so I move the two links you suggest and surrounding wording there.

---
title: "Production environment"
description: Create a production-quality Kubernetes cluster
weight: 30
no_list: true
---
<!-- overview -->

A production-quality Kubernetes cluster requires planning and preparation.
If your Kubernetes cluster is to run critical workloads, it must be configured to be resilient.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This page explains steps you can take to set up a production-ready cluster,
or to uprate an existing cluster for production use.

If you're already familiar with production setup and want the links, skip to
[What's next](#what-s-next).

```
_and_ add a What's Next section at the end of the page with a summary of links.
At a minimum I would include:
- each of the tools listed in https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/production-environment/tools/
- a link to https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/production-environment/turnkey-solutions/

and possibly:
- https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/best-practices/certificates/#configure-certificates-manually
```

Author: Done.

<!-- body -->

## Production issues

> Typically, a production environment Kubernetes has more requirements than a

Reviewer 3: nit: ... a production environment Kubernetes cluster? OR
a production Kubernetes cluster environment?

Author: Yeah, that could be better. I'll use your second suggestion.

development or test environment Kubernetes. A production environment may require
secure access by many users, consistent availability, and the resources to adapt
to changing demands.

As you decide where you want your production Kubernetes environment to live
(on premises or in a cloud) and the amount of management you want to take
on or hand to others, consider how your requirements for a Kubernetes cluster
are influenced by the following issues:

> - *Availability*: A single-machine Kubernetes [learning environment](/docs/setup/#learning-environment)

Reviewer 3: nit: Is it single-node or single-machine?

Author: I'd like to leave that "single-machine" since the word "node" in our docs is sometimes used specifically to refer to a Kubernetes worker.

> - *Availability*: A single-machine Kubernetes [learning environment](/docs/setup/#learning-environment)

Author: Ah, okay. Someone made the decision to divide Kubernetes setup into "Learning environment" and "Production environment" at some point. I think a better title than "Learning" would have been "Personal environment". Because those instructions would suit someone doing a personal learning, development, or test Kubernetes cluster. I'll change the sentence earlier where I talk about dev and test and lead with "personal learning environment". Hopefully, that will set up the learning environment tasks as more of a catch-all section for those kinds of non-production clusters.

has a single point of failure. Creating a highly available cluster means considering:
  - Separating the control plane from the worker nodes.
  - Replicating the control plane components on multiple nodes.

>   - Load balancing traffic to the cluster’s {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="kube-apiserver" text="API server" >}}.

Author: This one term was added by an earlier reviewer. After this PR is merged, I'm considering going back and adding more. But I'd rather not have that stop the progress for now.

>   - Having enough worker nodes available, or the availability to quickly come on line, as changing workloads warrant it.

Reviewer 3: nit: Could you rephrase, "come on line"?

Author: Sure. I'll say "...or able to quickly become available,..."

> - *Scale*: If you expect your production Kubernetes to receive a stable amount of

Author: Done.

demand, you might be able to set up for the capacity you need and be done. However,
if you expect demand to grow over time or change dramatically based on things like

> season or special events, you need to plan how to scale to relieve increased

Author: Okay. I added some words: "...relieve increased pressure from more requests to the..."

pressure on the control plane and worker nodes or scale down to reduce unused
resources.

- *Security and access management*: You have full admin privileges on your own
Kubernetes learning cluster. But shared clusters with important workloads, and
more than one or two users, require a more refined approach to who and what can
access cluster resources. You can use role-based access control
([RBAC](/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/)) and other
security mechanisms to make sure that users and workloads can get access to the
resources they need, while keeping workloads, and the cluster itself, secure.
You can set limits on the resources that users and workloads can access.

Before building a Kubernetes production environment on your own, consider

> handing off some or all of this job to 

Reviewer 3: Is this section part of "Production issues"?

[Turnkey Cloud Solutions](/docs/setup/production-environment/turnkey-solutions/) 
providers or other [Kubernetes Partners](https://kubernetes.io/partners/).
Options include:

- *Serverless*: Just run workloads on third-party equipment without managing
a cluster at all. You will be charged for things like CPU usage, memory, and

> disk requests.

Reviewer 3: nit: This section seems to diverge. I'm not sure if I would include this list.

Author: I had a several-page section on getting help with your Kubernetes environment from third-party providers that I cut from the end of this document. I turned it into the four bullet items, starting with Serverless, and the paragraph introducing it. It does stick out from the flow a bit. If you tell me once more to drop it, then I will.

- *Managed control plane*: Let the provider manage the scale and availability
of the cluster's control plane, as well as handle patches and upgrades.
- *Managed worker nodes*: Configure pools of nodes to meet your needs,
then the provider makes sure those nodes are available and ready to implement
upgrades when needed.
- *Integration*: There are providers that integrate Kubernetes with other
services you may need, such as storage, container registries, authentication
methods, and development tools.

Whether you build a production Kubernetes cluster yourself or work with
partners, review the following sections to evaluate your needs as they relate
to your cluster’s *control plane*, *worker nodes*, *user access*, and
*workload resources*.

> ## Production control plane

Reviewer 2: This could be “Production cluster setup” with two subheadings at 3rd level:
- Production control plane
- Production worker nodes

How does that sound?

Author: Yes. I'll do that.

Author: I added a short paragraph after the new "Production cluster setup" heading, to separate those two headings:

The simplest Kubernetes cluster has the entire control plane and worker node
services running on the same machine. You can grow that environment by adding
worker nodes, as reflected in the diagram illustrated in
[Kubernetes Components](/docs/concepts/overview/components/).
If the cluster is meant to be available for a short period of time, or can be
discarded if something goes seriously wrong, this might meet your needs.

If you need a more permanent, highly available cluster, however, you should

> consider ways of extending the control plane. By default, one-machine control

Reviewer 3: nit: "one-machine control plane services", took me a sec to parse. 
By design, control-plane services running on a single machine are not highly available?

Author: Done.

plane services are not highly available. If keeping the cluster up and running
and ensuring that it can be repaired if something goes wrong is important,
consider these steps::

- *Choose deployment tools*: You can deploy a control plane using tools such
as kubeadm, kops, and kubespray. Links from [Installing Kubernetes with deployment tools](/docs/setup/production-environment/tools/)

> contains tips for production-quality deployments using each of those deployment

Reviewer 3: nit: Links ... contain tips ...?
How about simplifying the sentence:
See [Installing Kubernetes with deployment tools](...) to learn tips about ...

Author: Done.

methods. Different [Container Runtimes](/docs/setup/production-environment/container-runtimes/)
are available to use with your deployments.
- *Manage certificates*: Secure communications between control plane services

> are implemented using certificates. These can be automatically generated

Reviewer 3: nit: s/These/You can generate certificates/ OR s/These/Certificates/

Author: Sure. I took the second suggestion.

> are implemented using certificates. Certificates can be automatically generated

Reviewer 3: nit: Deployment tools automatically generate certificates during deployment or you can generate them ...

Author: Done.

during deployment or you can generate them using your own certificate authority.
See [PKI certificates and requirements](/docs/setup/best-practices/certificates/) for details.
- *Configure load balancer for apiserver*: External access to the cluster

> should be to a load balancer that can distribute requests to the apiserver service

Reviewer 3: nit: Could reword/remove: should be to a, "External access to the cluster should be to a load balancer"

Author: Yes. Good catch. I'll reword the sentence to say:  "Configure a load balancer to distribute external API requests to the apiserver service instances running on different nodes."

on different nodes. See 
[Create an External Load Balancer](/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/create-external-load-balancer/)
for details.
- *Separate and backup etcd service*: The etcd services can either run on the
same machines as other control plane services or run on separate machines, for
extra security and availability. Because etcd stores cluster configuration data,
backing up the etcd database should be done regularly to ensure that you can
repair that database if needed.

> An etcd cluster should have an [odd number of members](https://etcd.io/docs/next/faq/#why-an-odd-number-of-cluster-members)

Reviewer 3: nit: I would leave the etcd details out and link to the etcd docs site?

Reviewer 4: I'd suggest linking to `v3.4` rather than `next` here. `v3.4` is the latest stable version, whereas `next` is for upcoming versions (and is more likely to change, even though it's an FAQ page).

https://etcd.io/docs/v3.4/faq/#why-an-odd-number-of-cluster-members

Reviewer 4: `/latest` is a good choice too.

Author: Okay. I changed it to a more general link to the etcd FAQ and used the suggested v3.4 link, omitting the specific section: "See the [etcd FAQ](https://etcd.io/docs/v3.4/faq/) for details on configuring and using etcd."

See [Operating etcd clusters for Kubernetes](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/configure-upgrade-etcd/)
and [Set up a High Availability etcd cluster with kubeadm](/docs/setup/production-environment/tools/kubeadm/setup-ha-etcd-with-kubeadm/)
for details.
- *Create multiple control plane nodes*: For high availability, the
control plane should not be limited to a single node. If the control plane

> services are run by an init service (such as systemd), it should run on at

Reviewer 3: nit: what is "it" -- the control plane?

Author: Good point. I changed "it" to "each service".

least three nodes. However, running control plane services as pods in

> Kubernetes ensures that if the node running one of those services goes down

Reviewer 3: lines 114-116, Does this sentence add value here? There are other sections in the docs that describe Services.
nit: Rephrase, "will simply be restarted"

Author: I think it adds value, but I can trim the sentence. The idea is that with the init method, if one of three hosts go down, you're down to two services. With Kubernetes, if a host goes down, the third service will automatically come back up on another host. The wording is a bit clumsy. I changed that sentence to read: "However, running control plane services as pods in Kubernetes ensures that the replicated number of services that you request will always be available."

or the service becomes unusable, the services will simply be restarted by
Kubernetes on an available node. The scheduler should be fault tolerant,
but not highly available. Some deployment tools set up [Raft](https://raft.github.io/)
consensus algorithm to do leader election of Kubernetes services. If the

> primary goes away, another service will elect itself and take over. 

Reviewer 3: nit: s/will elect/elects/

Author: Done.

- *Span multiple zones*: If keeping your cluster available at all times is
critical, consider creating a cluster that runs across multiple data centers,
referred to as zones in cloud environments. By spreading a cluster across

> multiple zones in the same region, it can improve the chances that your

Author: I added the sentence:  "Groups of zones are referred to as regions."

cluster will continue to function even if one zone becomes unavailable.
See [Running in multiple zones](/docs/setup/best-practices/multiple-zones/) for details.
- *Manage on-going features*: If you plan to keep your cluster over time,
there are tasks you need to do to maintain its health and security. For example,
if you installed with kubeadm, there are instructions to help you with
[Certificate Management](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kubeadm/kubeadm-certs/)
and [Upgrading kubeadm clusters](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kubeadm/kubeadm-upgrade/).
See [Administer a Cluster](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/)
for a longer list of Kubernetes administrative tasks.

> Settings you should use to run control plane services are listed in the

Reviewer 3: nit: Could rephrase, "Settings you should use to run"

Author: Sure. I changed it to: "To learn about available options when you run control plane services, see..."

[kube-apiserver](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kube-apiserver/),
[kube-controller-manager](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kube-controller-manager/),
and [kube-scheduler](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kube-scheduler/)

> component pages. For highly available control plane examples, see

Reviewer 3: nit: You've listed a lot of links.

Author: I'd like to leave that. When someone sits down to actually configure their control plane services, they will want to look at those pages.

[Creating Highly Available clusters with kubeadm](/docs/setup/production-environment/tools/kubeadm/high-availability/),
and [Operating etcd clusters for Kubernetes](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/configure-upgrade-etcd/).
See [Backing up an etcd cluster](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/configure-upgrade-etcd/#backing-up-an-etcd-cluster)
for information on making an etcd backup plan.

## Production worker nodes

Production-quality workloads need to be resilient and anything they rely
on needs to be resilient (such as CoreDNS). Whether you manage your own
control plane or have a cloud provider do it for you, you still need to
consider how you want to manage your worker nodes (also referred to
simply as *nodes*).  

- *Configure nodes*: Nodes can be physical or virtual machines. If you want to
create and manage your own nodes, you can install a supported operating system,
then add and run the appropriate
[Node services](/docs/concepts/overview/components/#node-components). Consider:
  - The demands of your workloads when you set up nodes by having appropriate memory, CPU, and disk speed and storage capacity available.

>   - Whether generic systems will do or you have workloads that need GPU processors, Windows nodes, or VM isolation.

Author: I'm going to change that to "generic computer systems" because it encompasses both the operating systems and to some extent the hardware.

to replace unhealthy nodes or grow and shrink the number of nodes as demand requires. See the
[Frequently Asked Questions](https://github.com/kubernetes/autoscaler/blob/master/cluster-autoscaler/FAQ.md)
for how the autoscaler works and
[Deployment](https://github.com/kubernetes/autoscaler/tree/master/cluster-autoscaler#deployment)
for how it is implemented by different cloud providers. For on-premises, there
are some virtualization platforms that can be scripted to spin up new nodes
based on demand.
- *Set up node health checks*: For important workloads, you want to make sure
that the nodes and pods running on those nodes are healthy. Using the
[Node Problem Detector](/docs/tasks/debug-application-cluster/monitor-node-health/)
daemon, you can ensure your nodes are healthy.

## Production user management

In production, you may be moving from a model where you or a small group of
people are accessing the cluster to where there may potentially be dozens or
hundreds of people. For a single-node cluster, you might have a single
administrative account for everything you do. In production, you will want
more accounts with different levels of access to different namespaces.

> Transitioning your mindset from a single-user cluster requires deciding how you

Reviewer 3: nit: Transitioning your mindset?

Reviewer 3: I think you mean, "Change your mind or way of thinking ..."?
This phrase may be more difficult to translate.

Author: Okay. Good point about translations. I'll simplify it to: "Taking on a production-quality cluster means deciding how you
want to selectively allow access by other users."

---
title: "Production environment"

> description: Create a production-quality Kubernetes.

Author: Either would be fine with me. I'll go with the first one.

weight: 30
no_list: true
---

> <!-- overview -->

Author: Okay. I'll add a short overview and put a heading after it. @sftim Is the overview section used in some way, like by search or some sort of other output?

> <!-- overview -->

Reviewer 2: We used to use the overview as part of a defined page structure (as in, the code looked for it). Now, that comment helps reviewers to spot when a page has two introductions, or none.

One day we might also use it to help automate adding a [shortcode](https://gohugo.io/content-management/shortcodes/) for page overview. Not yet though.

> <!-- overview -->

Author: Okay. I added a short introductory paragraph and a heading below it. Let me know if that works.

> <!-- overview -->

Author: Done.

A personal Kubernetes learning or development environment is not meant to be
used in production. A production environment may require secure access by many
users, consistent availability, and the resources to adapt to changing demands.

As you decide where you want your production Kubernetes environment to live
(on premises or in a cloud) and the amount of management you want to take
on or hand to others, consider how your requirements for a Kubernetes cluster
are colored by the following issues:

> - *Availability*: A single-machine Kubernetes learning environment has a single

Author: Done.

point of failure. Creating a highly available cluster means considering:
  - Separating the control plane from the worker nodes.

>   - Duplicating the control plane by having multiple instances of each control plane service available, having those services run on multiple machines, or load balancing traffic to the cluster’s apiserver.

Author: Done.

  - Having enough worker nodes available, or the availability to quickly come on line, as changing workloads warrant it.

- *Scale*: If you expect your production Kubernetes to receive a stable amount of
demand, you might be able to set up for the capacity you need and be done. However,
if you expect demand to grow over time or change dramatically based on things like
season or special events, you need to plan how to scale to relieve increased
pressure on the control plane and worker nodes or scale down to reduce unused
resources.

- *Security and access management*: You have full admin privileges on your own
Kubernetes learning cluster. But shared clusters with important workloads, and
more than one or two users, require a more refined approach to who and what can
access cluster resources. You can use role-based access control (RBAC) and other
security mechanisms to make sure that users and workloads can get access to the
resources they need, while keeping workloads, and the cluster itself, secure.

> You can set limits on the resources that users and workloads can access.

Author: I added those two links. I have a bunch more links on the topic below.

These issues should impact how you prepare your cluster’s *control plane*,
*worker nodes*, *user access*, and *workload resources*. After considering
each topic, you can decide how much you want to build and maintain yourself
and how much you want to use from various third-party Kubernetes providers and
[Turnkey Cloud Solutions](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/production-environment/turnkey-solutions/).

## Production control plane

The simplest Kubernetes cluster has the entire control plane and worker node
services running on the same machine. You can grow that environment by adding
worker nodes, as reflected in the diagram illustrated in
[Kubernetes Components](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/components/).
If the cluster is meant to be available for a short period of time, or can be
discarded if something goes seriously wrong, this might meet your needs.

If you need a more permanent, highly available cluster, however, you should
consider ways of extending the control plane. By default, one-machine control
plane services are not highly available. If keeping the cluster up and running
and ensuring that it can be repaired if something goes wrong is important,

> consider these steps::

Author: Doh! Good catch. Fixed.

are available to use with your deployments.
- *Manage certificates*: Secure communications between control plane services
are implemented using certificates. These can be automatically generated
during deployment or you can generate them using your own certificate authority.
See [PKI certificates and requirements](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/best-practices/certificates/) for details.
- *Configure load balancer for apiserver*: External access to the cluster
should be to a load balancer that can distribute requests to the apiserver service
on different nodes. See 
[Create an External Load Balancer](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-application-cluster/create-external-load-balancer/)
for details.
- *Separate and backup etcd service*: The etcd services can either run on the
same machines as other control plane services or run on separate machines, for
extra security and availability. Because etcd stores cluster configuration data,
backing up the etcd database should be done regularly to ensure that you can
repair that database if needed. See [Operating etcd clusters for Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/configure-upgrade-etcd/)
for details.

> - *Create multiple control plane nodes*: For high availability, the

Author: I think we get into the problem that the word "node" is usually used to refer to a system running as a worker, while sometimes node can also refer to the computer system that one or more control plane nodes might be running on. There are many ways of dividing up control plane services. The main point is to run control plane services on multiple systems. I think I'll change the word "node" to "machine" to be clear that we are not talking about workers here.

to help determine how many nodes you need, based on the number of pods and
containers you need to run. If you are managing nodes yourself, this can mean
purchasing and installing your own physical equipment.
- *Autoscale nodes*: Most cloud providers support
[Cluster Autoscaler](https://github.com/kubernetes/autoscaler/tree/master/cluster-autoscaler#readme)
to replace unhealthy nodes or grow and shrink the number of nodes as demand requires. See the
[Frequently Asked Questions](https://github.com/kubernetes/autoscaler/blob/master/cluster-autoscaler/FAQ.md)
for how the autoscaler works and
[Deployment](https://github.com/kubernetes/autoscaler/tree/master/cluster-autoscaler#deployment)
for how it is implemented by different cloud providers. For on-premises, there
are some virtualization platforms that can be scripted to spin up new nodes
based on demand.
- *Set up node health checks*: For important workloads, you want to make sure
that the nodes and pods running on those nodes are healthy. Using the
[Node Problem Detector](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/debug-application-cluster/monitor-node-health/)
daemon, you can ensure your nodes are healthy.

> ## Production user management

Reviewer 3: Yes, this page could leave some of the descriptions to the pages that cover each topic.

> ## Production user management

Author: This section is not limited to control plane access. In fact, my understanding is that most users won't have direct access to the control plane but are just granted the access they need to run their applications. I'm inclined to not change this heading.

In production, you may be moving from a model where you or a small group of
people are accessing the cluster to where there may potentially be dozens or

> hundreds of people. For a single-node cluster, you might have a single

Author: Done.

> administrative account for everything you do. In production, you will want

Author: Good idea to have a follow-up PR. My understanding is that authentication (is the user who they say they are) is typically done using an outside service (such as LDAP) and authorization (can the user do what they are asking to do) is done within the cluster. But I'll make a note to myself to look into this further for a follow-up PR.

more accounts with different levels of access to different namespaces.

Transitioning your mindset from a single-user cluster requires deciding how you
want to selectively allow access by other users. In particular, you need to
select strategies for validating the identities of those who try to access your
cluster (authentication) and deciding if they have permissions to do what they
are asking (authorization):

- *Authentication*: The apiserver can authenticate users using client

> certificates, bearer tokens, an authenticating proxy, or HTTP basic auth.

Author: Sure. I added this sentence: "You can choose which authentication methods you want to use."

authorization, users can create a CertificateSigningRequest (CSR) that can be
signed by the cluster CA. Then you can bind Roles and ClusterRoles to each user.
See [Certificate Signing Requests](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/certificate-signing-requests/)
for details.
- *Create policies that combine attributes (ABAC)*: If you are using ABAC
authorization, you can assign combinations of attributes to form policies to
authorize selected users or groups to access particular resources (such as a
pod), namespace, or apiGroup. For more information, see
[Examples](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/abac/#examples).
- *Consider Admission Controllers*: Additional forms of authorization for
requests that can come in through the API server include
[Webhook Token Authentication](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#webhook-token-authentication).
Webhooks and other special authorization types need to be enabled by adding
[Admission Controllers](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/admission-controllers/)
to the API server.

> ## Production workload resources

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure what this heading means. Imagine I'm a reader who's heard of Deployment and StatefulSet. Am I expecting to read about hardened replacements for those that come with secure defaults? DeploymentThatForcesYouToDeclareRequiredCapabilities, StatefulSetThatRefusesToRunAsRoot etc?

So, no, that's not what the section is about. However, the heading is not clear enough about what you get when you click it in the nav.

Can we reword? Headings are important to get right because people bookmark them.

Author: I was trying to keep the sections on this page parallel:

Production considerations
Production control plane
Production worker nodes
Production user management
Production workload resources

I'll change the last one to read: "Set limits on workload resources"

When planning a production Kubernetes cluster, you need to prepare for the scale and nature of your workloads. Demands from workloads can cause pressure outside of the Kubernetes control plane as well. Here are a few things to consider when managing workload resources:

- *Set namespace limits*: To manage defaults and the limits of user workloads,
you can set per-namespace quotas on things like memory and CPU. See
[Manage Memory, CPU, and API Resources](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/manage-resources/)
for details. You can also set
[Hierarchical Namespaces](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2020/08/14/introducing-hierarchical-namespaces/)

> for inheriting limits.

Reviewer 2: I'd expect to see links to https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/policy/limit-range/ and https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/manage-resources/quota-memory-cpu-namespace/ (rather than the ones here). Hierarchical Namespaces could come up in the What's Next section?

- *Consider horizontal pod autoscaling*: In preparation for demands on workloads in the
cluster, you can use pod autoscaling to automatically add additional pods as needed.
New pods are created based on an observation that a pod is exceeding its CPU
utilization or other metric provided by the application. See
[Horizontal Pod Autoscaler](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/horizontal-pod-autoscale/)

> for details.

Reviewer 2: These are more about making your _workload_ production ready. I think that's important but should be the topic of a separate page.

Think [CKAD](https://www.cncf.io/certification/ckad/) vs [CKA](https://www.cncf.io/certification/cka/).

Author: Good point. I'll remove it from here and look for an opportunity to put this content elsewhere.

- *Prepare for DNS demand*: An extreme number of requests coming into the API
server can cause excessive traffic to the DNS service. If workloads are massively
scaling up, you will need to make sure your DNS service can scale up as well. See

> [Autoscale the DNS service in a Cluster](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/dns-horizontal-autoscaling/).

Reviewer 2: https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/best-practices/ has some better advice on this IMO, and covers more than just the `kube-dns` component.

Author: I agree. I have included all of the links from the Best practices page somewhere in this document. So I think we are covered there. I was thinking you might consider reworking the Best practices page to include some text as well as those links. Maybe I'll file a separate issue for that.

- *Create additional service accounts*: While user accounts determine what users
can do on a cluster, a service account defines pod access within a particular
namespace in the cluster. Unless defined otherwise, a pod takes on the default
service account for the namespace in which it runs. You can create a new service
account, containing additional features, that you can add to a new pod to give
it additional capabilities (see
[Managing Service Accounts](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/service-accounts-admin/)).
For example, you might want to:
  - Add secrets that a pod could use to pull images from a particular container registry. See [Configure Service Accounts for Pods](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/) for an example.

>   - Assign RBAC permissions to a service account. See [ServiceAccount permissions](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/#service-account-permissions) for details.

Reviewer 2: Can we link to a different page that signposts readers to these things? They are important, but I don't see them as cluster setup tasks.

Author: I'm inclined to leave this, but perhaps I can be persuaded to change it. I'm thinking a production cluster is, by its nature, something you prepare to have a long shelf life as you are setting it up. Part of setting up a production cluster is acknowledging that you are taking on management tasks as well. A Learning environment is something you more typically set up and throw away when you are done. For production, the initial setup might mean preparing it for multi-user use and on-going maintenance.

Reviewer 2: That makes sense - you do need to define access control when you set up a production cluster.

If keeping it, then: can we say the same thing more concisely?

Author: Sure. I can do that. Thanks!

Author: Done.

## Production Kubernetes using third-party providers

Setting up and maintaining a production-quality Kubernetes cluster at scale
can be a demanding, ongoing task. Instead of managing all that yourself,
you can have third-party cloud and on-premises Kubernetes providers take on
some or all of that work. Your level of control when working with a third-party
provider can be anything from no responsibility for the cluster at all
(serverless) to handing over management of just the control plane or nodes
to running a cluster yourself on a third-party’s cloud or on-premises equipment.

See [Turnkey Cloud Solutions](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/production-environment/turnkey-solutions/)

> for a list of available third-party Kubernetes providers.

Reviewer 2: This seems to duplicate line 44. I recommend omitting the section. It'd make good material for a blog article I think.

Author: You convinced me. I will remove the entire "Production Kubernetes using third-party providers" section from this page and expand it into a separate blog. I'll just add a few words to text you noted around line 44 . So, hopefully, I'll rework this content and you'll see it submitted to the Kubernetes blog area. Thanks!

Author: I removed the section and added a short bullet list to the production issues section. Let me know if that requires any further changes.

### Serverless

It is possible to deploy containerized application workloads without managing
a Kubernetes cluster at all. Cloud providers offer different options that allow
you to deploy serverless workloads, where the underlying Kubernetes cluster is
totally managed by them. Look for cloud providers that let you run Kubernetes
workloads where you pay based on things like CPU usage, memory, and disk

> requests, along with some control plane costs. 

Reviewer 2: I'd mention the “make it somebody else's problem” option earlier, either around the content that's on line 44 (at time of review), or in the introduction.

Author: Yes. I'll remove the whole section from here. Maybe I'll  make it into a short bullet list of ways not to have to set up a production Kubernetes completely yourself. Then save the longer explanation for a blog.

Author: Done.
